# Difference_Arrays_ArrayLists
There are a few distinctions between arrays and array lists in java, though they both are containers for data. Both containers are used similarly- they store a set of data that can be used accross the program.

While they both share a container-like structure, they have a few key differences. The most notable difference is their size. Arrays themselves are powerful, but they can only contain a preset size of contents that must be assigned when the array is declared and initialized. This is why it is a common/best practice to initialize their size with a predefined constant. Having a predefined size means that arrays are very specific to the data they hold. A club that has a maximum limit to its' memberships is great for storing it's member names/data into an array. Data that can increase or decrease is fine for an array, but it will become tedious or cumbersome for a program/programmer to constantly think about the amount of data that can be assigned to an array if more space is needed. In fact, it is bad practice to think of arrays as a tool that you can assign more space to in the future when need be. 

Enter ArrayLists- a versatile tool for Java programming that enables programmers to add changes with ease, with little-to-no concern for the size of the container. While arrays have methods of their own, an ArrayList has a vast set of methods that are easy to use! You can append as much data as you want, and remove as much as you want. The size of an ArrayList bends to the current amount of data stored within at run time. Because of this, it is an excellent tool for almost any set of data.
